Methods - Dimensionality Reduction (#6)
greenelab/annorxiver_manuscript: content/03.methods.md

This document vector is calculated by taking the average of every token present within a given article, ignoring those that were absent from the word2vec model.

#### Dimensionality Reduction of Document Embeddings
We used principal component analysis (PCA) [@doi:10.1111/1467-9868.00196] to project bioRxiv document vectors into a low dimensional space.

> This model was trained using scikit-learn's [@raw:scikit-learn] implementation with a random seed of 100, output of 50 principal components, and default settings for all other parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We trained this model using scikit-learn's [@raw:scikit-learn] implementation of a randomized solver [@arxiv:0909.4061] with a random seed of 100, output of 50 principal components, and default settings for all other parameters.
```

This document vector is calculated by taking the average of every token present within a given article, ignoring those that were absent from the word2vec model.

#### Dimensionality Reduction of Document Embeddings

> We used t-Distributed Stochastic Neighbor Embedding (tSNE) [@raw:tsne_Maaten] to generate a global view of the bioRxiv preprint landscape. 

Reviewer: I thought the plan was to use PCA for interpretability. Are you still planning to leave tSNE in as well?

Author: Ah. I was under the impression to include it; however, now that I think about it sticking with PCA only is the better choice.

This model was trained on bioRxiv document vectors using scikit-learn's [@raw:scikit-learn] implementation with a random seed of 100 and default settings for all other parameters.

We used principal component analysis (PCA) [@doi:10.1111/1467-9868.00196] to project bioRxiv document vectors into a low dimensional space.

> This model was trained using scikit-learn's implementation with a random seed of 100, output of 50 principal components, and default settings for all other parameters.

Reviewer: Is this using a randomized solver?

Author: Yup. The default is for PCA to figure out which algorithm is best. After reading the documentation, I found that scikit-learn's solver determined that randomized solver is most optimal.

> For each principal component we calculated its cosine similarity with  all tokens in our word2vec model's vocab list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each principal component we calculated its cosine similarity with  all tokens in our word2vec model's vocabulary.
```

> We report the top 100 positive and negative scoring tokens in the form of  word clouds.

Reviewer: Does size in the cloud denote anything?
